Make auth system more flexible & convenient and add "callbacks" (#1032)
elan-ev/tobira: docs/docs/setup/auth/user/trust-auth-headers.md

sidebar_position: 3
---

# Trust auth headers

> ```toml
> auth.source = "trust-auth-headers"
> ```

## How it works

In this mode, your custom auth logic sits in front of Tobira and passes user information to it via *auth headers*.
From Tobira's perspective it's easy: if the auth headers are set, the request is authenticated, otherwise it's not.
*Note*: the [auth callback](./callback) method is better than this in most cases, so try to use that instead.

```
┌──────┐                    ┌─────────┐────────┐  req with auth headers   ┌────────┐
│      │ -----------------> │ reverse │  Your  │ -----------------------> │        │
│ User │                    │  proxy  │  Auth  │                          │ Tobira │
│      │ <----------------- │         │  Logic │ <----------------------- │        │
└──────┘                    └─────────┘────────┘                          └────────┘

> ```

Reviewer: See the appropriate comment on the callback doc

:::tip
Authentication is irrelevant for requests to `/~assets/*` as those are just static files everyone can access.
Don't run your auth logic for those to prevent useless work.
:::

The *auth headers* are just designated HTTP headers, one for each kind of information described in ["User information Tobira needs"](./#user-information-tobira-needs):

- `x-tobira-username`: Username
- `x-tobira-user-display-name`: Display name
- `x-tobira-user-roles`: List of roles, comma separated.
  Must contain exactly one role starting with any of `auth.user_role_prefixes`, which is treated as the user role.
- `x-tobira-user-email`: User email address (optional)

> All these header values have to be a **base64-encoded UTF-8** string!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All these header values have to be **base64-encoded UTF-8** strings!
```

or

```suggestion
Every one of these header values has to be **base64-encoded UTF-8** string!

If you use Tobira's login page, you have to properly intercept and react to the `POST /~login` requests sent by it.

> Alternatively, you can use your own login page of course.

Reviewer: Maybe cross-link to the relevant section about intercepting those?
